Hj docs updates (#1518)
CasperLabs/CasperLabs: docs/CONTRACTS.md

Success!
```

###### Alternative way of creating, signing, and deploying contracts

Every account can associate multiple keys with it and give each a weight. Collective weight of signing keys decides whether an action of certain type can be made. In order to collect weight of different associated keys a deploy has to be signed by corresponding private keys. 

The `deploy` command does it all (creates a deploy, signs it, deploys to the node, and allows for monitoring the outcome of deploys) but doesn't allow for signing with multiple keys. 

> 

Author: re: 87 . this is odd, it is not in the file i pushed

> 

Author: 87 -- this is odd, this is not in the file i uploaded, in any case, will make sure to update as per your comment

**Calling a stored contract by name**

For convenience, a contract address can be associated with a name in the context of a user's account. Typically this is done in the same contract that calls `store_function`.

In the example below, `counter_ext` is a function in the same module as the executing contract. The function is stored on blockchain with `store_function`. Next, a call to `put_key` associates the stored contract's address with a name `"counter"`.

For example:
```
    //create map of references for stored contract
    let mut counter_urefs: BTreeMap<String, Key> = BTreeMap::new();
    let pointer = store_function("counter_ext", counter_urefs);
    put_key("counter", &pointer.into());
```

`casperlabs-client` `deploy` command accepts argument `--session-name` which can be used to refer to a stored contract by its name.

For example:
```
--session-name counter
```
This option can be used to create a deploy with a stored contract
acting as the deploy's session contract. An equivalent argument for a payment contract is `--payment-name`.

Note: names are valid only in the context of the account which called `put_key`.

> **Calling a stored contract by reference**

Reviewer: This is not a new example compared to what is already here. But the fact that you thought it was perhaps means we need to work on this section some more to make it clearer.

There are two ways to store a contract under a `Key`: `store_function` (stores under a `Key::URef`) and `store_function_at_hash` (stores under a `Key::Hash`).

There is one way to associate a `Key` with a human-readable name: `put_key`. This association is only valid in the context where `put_key` is run.

From the client (either scala or python) there are 4 ways to execute code:
- Provide the wasm directly (this corresponds to `--session` or `--payment`, depending on what execution phase you want the code to be used for)
- Provide the `Key::Hash` address in base-16 that a contract was previously stored under via `store_function_at_hash` (this corresponds to `--session-hash` or `--payment-hash`)
- Provide the human readable name that is associated with some `Key` (via `put_key`) that a contract was previously stored under via either `store_*` function (this corresponds to `--session-name` or `--payment-name`)
- Provide the bytes identifying the `Key::URef` that a contract was previously stored under (this corresponds to `--session-uref` or `--payment-uref`)

The last one I don't even think we should document because in order to use it you must have already called `put_key` to persist the `URef` in the account (otherwise you will get a forged `URef` error), which means you should just use the human readable name anyways.

So, based on the cases above, we need two rust source examples, one for `store_function` and one for `store_function_at_hash` (these could really be one example, but I don't necessarily want to confuse the matter). We also need two client CLI examples, one for `--session-hash` (which only works with contracts stored at hashes of course) and one for `--session-name` (which works with either storage function); the one with passing in the wasm itself rather than referencing a previously stored contract is already covered in the basic description of deploy.

It might also be worth calling out that the workflow here would be store store a contract by sending the wasm (using `--session) then calling the contract by name/address (using `--session-name` / `--session-hash`). This is sort of laid out in the [count-define example](https://github.com/CasperLabs/CasperLabs/tree/dev/execution-engine/contracts/examples/counter-define), via the two client CLI snippets in the README, but not at all explained, so it might be nice to do that in this document.

If all that is clear then please refactor the whole `Stored contracts` section to reflect all this in the best way you can.

Use the CasperLabs client `deploy` sub-command.

For example:
```
casperlabs-client\
    --host deploy.casperlabs.io \
        deploy \
    --dependencies  <arg>...
```

 `--dependencies`  passes the argument list of deploy hashes (base16 encoded) which must be executed before this deploy.

**Command line client's syntax of contract arguments**

Client's `deploy` command accepts parameter `--session-args`
that can be used to specify types and values of contract arguments as a serialized sequence of [Arg](https://github.com/CasperLabs/CasperLabs/blob/ca35f324179c93f0687ed4cf67d887176525b73b/protobuf/io/casperlabs/casper/consensus/consensus.proto#L78) values in a [protobuf JSON format](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#json), with binary data represented in Base16 format.

For example:

`--session-args '[{"name": "amount", "value": {"long_value": 123456}}]'`.

**Accessing arguments in contracts**

The Contract API function `get_arg` allows you to access contract arguments via their indices `(get_args(0))`.

For example:
```

> get_arg("amount")

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I was wrong about this, named arguments haven't been implemented yet. Please remove lines 330-332, example on line 328 is enough.

```
This will print information of a deploy into STDOUT. There are `--json` and `--bytes-standard` flags for, respectively, using standard JSON vs Protobuf text encoding and standard ASCII-escaped for Protobuf or Base64 for JSON bytes encoding vs custom Base16. The same set of flags is also available for all `show-*` and `query-state` commands.

**Sending a deploy to the node**
```
casperlabs-client \
    --host localhost \
    send-deploy
```
In the example above there is no `-i` argument, meaning that the signed deploy will be read from STDIN.

> Reading from STDIN and writing to STDOUT allows for piping output from one command to the input of another one ( commands are incomplete for better readability):

Reviewer: Extra space after left parenthesis

casperlabs-client send-deploy
```

For more detailed description about deploy commands, use the `--help` flag (`casper-client --help`).

##### Step 8: Observe

See the instructions [here](QUERYING.md).

**Monitoring deploy status**

> The `casperlabs-client--help` says that `show-deploy` allows the user to `View properties of a deploy known by Casper on an existing running node`. One of the properties of a deploy is its status which can be one of:

Author: @birchmd  promise to update docs, etc. to make sure to never make readers feel like "plebs" ever

**Calling a stored contract using its address**

Contract address is a cryptographic hash uniquely identifyiyng a stored contract in the system. 
Thus, it can be used to call the stored contract directly when creating a deploy, e.g. on command line, or from another contract.

`casperlabs-client` `deploy` command accepts argument `--session-hash` which can be used to create a deploy using a stored contract instead of a file with a compiled WASM module. Its value should be a base16 representation of the contract address, 

For example:

`--session-hash 2358448f76c8b3a9e263571007998791a815e954c3c3db2da830a294ea7cba65`.

`payment-hash` is an option equivalent to `--session-hash`
but for specifying address of payment contract.

**Calling a stored contract by name**

For convenience, a contract address can be associated with a name in the context of a user's account.

Typically this is done in the same contract that calls `store_function`.
In the example below `counter_ext` is a function in the same module as the executing contract.

> The function is stored on blockchain with `store_function`. Next, a call to `add_uref` associates the stored contract's address with a name `"counter"`.

Author: @birchmd just double checking that throughout CL  'add_uref' no longer exists and is now 'put_key', and not just `put_key` in this instance

> The function is stored on blockchain with `store_function`. Next, a call to `add_uref` associates the stored contract's address with a name `"counter"`.

Reviewer: Yes, that is correct.

**Calling a stored contract using its address**

Contract address is a cryptographic hash uniquely identifyiyng a stored contract in the system. Thus, it can be used to call the stored contract directly when creating a deploy, for example on command line or from another contract.

The `casperlabs-client` `deploy` command accepts argument `--session-hash`, which can be used to create a deploy using a stored contract instead of a file with a compiled WASM module. Its value should be a base16 representation of the contract address.

For example:

`--session-hash 2358448f76c8b3a9e263571007998791a815e954c3c3db2da830a294ea7cba65`.

`payment-hash` is an option equivalent to `--session-hash`
but for specifying the address of a payment contract.

**Calling a stored contract by name**

For convenience, a contract address can be associated with a name in the context of a user's account. Typically this is done in the same contract that calls `store_function`.

> In the example below, `counter_ext` is a function in the same module as the executing contract. The function is stored on blockchain with `store_function`. Next, a call to `put_key` associates the stored contract's address with a name `"counter"`.

Reviewer: Since I have updated the `counter` contract in dev, we could use it as an instead of this custom one. As is the example would need updating because it still contains usages of `add_uref`.

**Understanding the difference between calling a contract directly and with `call_contract`**

When a contract is stored with `store_function`  there is a new context created for it, with initial content defined by the map passed to `store_function` as its second argument. Later, when the stored contract is called with `call_contract` it is executed in this context.

In contrast, when the same stored contract is called directly,
for example its address is passed to `--session-hash` argument of the `deploy` command, the contract will be executed in the context of the account that creates the deploy. The consequence of this is that stateful contracts designed to operate in a specific context may not work as expected when called directly. They may, for instance, attempt to read or modify a `URef` that they expect to exist in their context, but find it missing in the context that they are actually run in -- that is of the deployer's account.

Note that for now, one way to get around this (as this will likely change in the future), is to create a stateless "proxy" contract which essentially does `call_contract` and nothing else.

> For example, this stored contract: Increment the counter

Reviewer: Seems like `this` should be a link.

```
$ casperlabs-client --host $HOST deploy \
    --private-key $PRIVATE_KEY_PATH \
    --payment-amount 10000000 \
    --session-name counter_inc
```

> The counter contract example, stores an additional function for incrementing the counter. This function can be called directly by name in order to increment the counter without sending additional wasm. This is useful because it means we can greatly reduce the amount of wasm we send in the current LRT workflow.

Reviewer: > This is useful because it means we can greatly reduce the amount of wasm we send in the current LRT workflow.

We don't need to say this in our public documentation.

###### Advanced deploy options

**Stored contracts**

> A `store_function` that is part of the deployed contract's module can be saved on the blockchain with the Contract API `store_function`. This function becomes a stored contract that can later be called from another contract with `call_contract`, or used instead of a WASM file when creating a new deploy on the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A function that is part of a session code module can be saved on the blockchain with the Contract API `store_function`. This function becomes a stored contract that can later be called from another contract with `call_contract`, or used as payment/session code, instead of a wasm file, when creating a new deploy.
```

**Storing contracts under a Key**

> There are two ways to store a contract under a Key: `store_function` stores a contract under a `Key::URef`, `store_function_at_hash` stores a contract under a `Key::Hash` -- a 256-bit unique identifier which is generated by the system. Both correspond to `--session-name` or `--payment-name`.

Reviewer: No, this is not correct. `--session-name` and `--payment-name` will reference a named key in the deployer's account. If you call `store_function` then call `put_key` to store the key under a name then that name will correspond to `--session-name` and/or `--payment-name` (similarly for `store_function_at_hash`).

> For Example: `store_function`

Reviewer: Unnecessary capital 'E'

> ``` 

Reviewer: You can make code blocks have syntax highlighting by putting the language name after the triple ticks.

Also, the last line in this code block does not look like valid rust syntax. And do we ever explain what `counter_urefs` is all about?

 //create map of references for stored contract
    let mut counter_urefs: BTreeMap<String, Key> = BTreeMap::new();
    let pointer = store_function("counter_ext", counter_urefs);
    Key::URef address("counter", &pointer.into());
```
The store_function stores the contract under a `Key::URef` associated with an address.

It is important to note storing a contract under a `URef` allows the contract to be upgraded with the `upgrade_contract_at_uref` function. Whereas, when a contract is stored under a `Hash` it is immutable (that `Hash` will always point to exactly that contract).

For Example: `store_function_at_hash`
 
```
//create map of references for stored contract
    let mut counter_urefs: BTreeMap<String, Key> = BTreeMap::new();
    let pointer = store_function_at_hash("counter_ext", counter_urefs);
    Key::Hash address("counter", &pointer.into());
```
The `store_function_at_hash` stores the contract under a `Key::Hash` associated with an address.

**Associating a Key with a Name**

> There is one way to associate a Key with a human-readable name with `put_key`. This association (names) is valid only in the context where `put_key` is run.

Reviewer: This is a true sentence, but I wonder how meaningful it is. Do we explain earlier on what a "context" is? There also doesn't appear to be any motivation for this section. Why would I want to associate a key with a human readable name in the first place? (There are good reasons of course, I just don't know if we are describing them explicitly).

**Calling stored contracts**

> From the client, there are several ways you can execute code: as a direct deploy (see basic description of [deploy](https://github.com/CasperLabs/CasperLabs/blob/release-v0.11/docs/CONTRACTS.md#step-5-deploy-counterdefinewasm)), or a stored contract whereby payment and session contracts stored on the chain are called providing either a `hash`, `name`, or `uref` of the contract.

Reviewer: I think you can make the URL just `CONTRACTS.md#step-5-deploy-counterdefinewasm` and it will always link to the current version of this document; instead of us needed to try to remember to update the release version all the time.

Also, what is the distinction you are drawing between a "direct deploy" vs a deploy where the payment/session code are stored on-chain already? I have been using the terms interchangeably.

> You can call an existing contract stored on the blockchain using its address, or sending the arguments to the contract. The deploy command accepts a list of arguments for either (or both) of the payment and session contracts, as values of parameters `--session-args` and `--payment-args`.

Reviewer: Passing arguments is a totally independent feature from stored contracts. You can also pass arguments to contracts when you give them as explicit wasm code as well. We should have a distinct section all about passing arguments if we do not have one already.

The Scala client takes both the contract WASM bytes and list of arguments in the Proto 3 JSON format,

For Example:

```
--session-args '[{``"name"``: ``"amount"``, ``"value"``: {``"long_value"``: ``123456``}}]
```

> Note that `Standard Payment Code` is used as the default where no payment code is supplied for the deploy.

Reviewer: This note feels out of place here. Seems like it belongs in a description about the client, rather than about contracts in general.

**Contract address**

> Contract address is a cryptographic hash uniquely identifying a stored contract in the system. Thus, it can be used to call the stored contract directly when creating a deploy, e.g. on command line; or from another contract.

Reviewer: Calling a contract via `call_contract` does not create a new deploy. So this sentence is almost true, but needs to be reworked a little so that it does not imply calling from another contract is creating a deploy.

**Calling a stored contract using its address**

The `casperlabs-client` `deploy` command accepts argument `--session-hash` which can be used to create a deploy using a stored contract instead of a file with a compiled WASM module. Its value should be a base16 representation of the contract address.

For example: `--session-hash 2358448f76c8b3a9e263571007998791a815e954c3c3db2da830a294ea7cba65`.

Note that `--payment-hash` is an option equivalent to `--session-hash` but for specifying the address of the payment contract. Provide the `Key::Hash address` in `base-16` that a contract was previously stored under.

For example:  Calling a stored contract by `--session-hash`
```

> $ casperlabs-client --host $HOST deploy \     

Reviewer: Random character at the end of some lines.

    --private-key $PRIVATE_KEY_PATH \ 
    --payment-amount 10000000 \ 
    --session-hash 2358448f76c8b3a9e263571007998791a815e954c3c3db2da830a294ea7cba65
```

The `store_function_at_hash` stores the serialized bytes of an exported function at an immutable address generated by the host. It corresponds to `--session-hash`, or `--payment-hash` (an option equivalent to `--session-hash` but for specifying the address of payment contract).

**Calling a stored contract by name**

> For convenience, a contract address can be associated with a human readable name in the context of a user's account.

Reviewer: Didn't we have a section about this already above?

Later, when the stored contract is called with `call_contract` it is executed in this context.

In contrast, when the same stored contract is called directly,
for example, its address is passed to `--session-hash` argument of the `deploy` command, the contract will be executed in the context of the account that creates the deploy. 
The consequence of this is that stateful contracts designed to operate in a specific context may not work as expected when called directly. 
They may, for instance, attempt to read or modify a `URef` that they expect to exist in their context, but find it missing in the context that they are actually run in, that is of the deployer's account.

**Passing arguments to contracts**

Smart contracts can be parametrized. A list of contract arguments can be specified on command line when the contract is deployed.

When the contract code is executed it can access individual arguments
by calling Contract API function `get_arg` with index of an argument. First argument is indexed with `0`.

**Time to Live and Deploy Dependency**

> **Time to Live** specifies a duration by which the deploy can be included in a block prior to expiration. The node will not accept deploys with deploy.timestamp greater than some configurable number of milliseconds in the future (relative to its current time).  This maximum future time is configurable because this parameter is not visible at the protocol level since deploys can only go into blocks after their deploy.timestamp. This value may be adjusted depending on the tolerance for storing deploys in the deploy buffer for some time before being able to include them in a block. 

Reviewer 2: I find it hard to understand this sentence: "This maximum future time is configurable because this parameter is not visible at the protocol level since deploys can only go into blocks after their deploy.timestamp."  Perhaps it should be split into shorter, more clear sentences.

**Deploy Dependency** provides a parameter for a mechanism implemented to explicitly enforce an ordering to deploys. This is important since sometimes order matters. 

 `--dependencies`  passes the argument list of deploy hashes (base16 encoded) which must be executed before this deploy.

**Command line client's syntax of contract arguments**

Client's `deploy` command accepts parameter `--session-args`
that can be used to specify types and values of contract arguments 
as a serialized sequence of
[Arg](https://github.com/CasperLabs/CasperLabs/blob/ca35f324179c93f0687ed4cf67d887176525b73b/protobuf/io/casperlabs/casper/consensus/consensus.proto#L78) values in a [protobuf JSON format](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#json), with binary data represented in Base16 format.

For example: `--session-args '[{"name": "amount", "value": {"long_value": 123456}}]'`.

Note, contract arguments are positional,
and so the `"name"` attribute is currently not used. However, we plan to change contract arguments to be keyword (named) arguments.

> The structure of the `Arg` protobuf message and its JSON serialized form is ready for this change.

Reviewer 2: This information is obsolete, because the change anticipated in it has been already implemented. Therefore it can be removed entirely.

Reviewer 2: Because of the above mentioned change section "Accessing arguments in contracts" is no longer correct. Please update examples in that section that show accessing contract arguments via their indices (`get_args(0)`). Currently `get_arg` accepts name of a parameter as a string, for example: `get_arg("amount")`. 

Also: "will deserialize first contract argument as a value of type u64" should be changed to "will deserialize contract argument `amount` as a value of type u64"

In a future release Contract API `get_arg` function

> will change to accept a string with a name of an argument instead of it's index.

Reviewer 2: The same as above: this information is now obsolete, please remove.

**Understanding difference between calling a contract directly and with `call_contract`**

When a contract is stored with `store_function`  there is a new context created for it, with initial content defined by the map passed to `store_function` as its second argument.
Later, when the stored contract is called with `call_contract` it is executed in this context.

In contrast, when the same stored contract is called directly.  For example, its address is passed to `--session-hash` argument of the `deploy` command, the contract will be executed in the context of the account that creates the deploy. 

> The consequence of this is that stateful contracts designed to operate in a specific context may not work as expected when called directly. They may, for instance, attempt to read or modify a `URef` that they expect to exist in their context, but find it missing in the context that they are actually run in, that is of the deployer's account.

Reviewer: We should mention the way to get around this (for now anyways, this will likely change in the future) is to create a stateless "proxy" contract which essentially does `call_contract` and nothing else. We can point to an example of a stored contract which does this; I have a PR open for one now, but it's not merged yet: https://github.com/CasperLabs/CasperLabs/pull/1527

**Passing arguments to contracts**

Smart contracts can be parametrized. A list of contract arguments can be specified on command line when the contract is deployed.

When the contract code is executed it can access individual arguments
by calling Contract API function `get_arg` with index of an argument. First argument is indexed with `0`.

**Time to Live and Deploy Dependency**

> **Time to Live** specifies a duration for which the deploy can be included in a block prior to expiration. The node will not accept deploys with deploy.timestamp greater than some configurable number of milliseconds in the future (relative to its current time). This maximum future time is configurable -- this parameter is not at the protocol level since deploys can only go into blocks after their deploy.timestamp.

Reviewer: `deploy.timestamp` should be formatted as code.
It is important to point out that individual nodes choose their own future cut-off, so this is something set by node operators, not users.

`--ttl-millis` passes the argument set Time to live, Time (in milliseconds) that the deploy will remain valid for. If no parameter is specified, a default (defined in the Chainspec - Genesis block) will be used.

**Deploy Dependency** provides a parameter for a mechanism implemented to explicitly enforce an ordering to deploys. This is important since sometimes order matters. 

 `--dependencies`  passes the argument list of deploy hashes (base16 encoded) which must be executed before this deploy.

**Command line client's syntax of contract arguments**

Client's `deploy` command accepts parameter `--session-args`
that can be used to specify types and values of contract arguments 
as a serialized sequence of
[Arg](https://github.com/CasperLabs/CasperLabs/blob/ca35f324179c93f0687ed4cf67d887176525b73b/protobuf/io/casperlabs/casper/consensus/consensus.proto#L78) values in a [protobuf JSON format](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#json), with binary data represented in Base16 format.

For example: 

```
`--session-args '[{"name": "amount", "value": {"long_value": 123456}}]'`.
```

**Accessing arguments in contracts**

> Contract API function `get_arg` allows to access contract arguments. accessing contract arguments via their indices `(get_args(0))`. Currently `get_arg` accepts name of a parameter as a string.

Reviewer: This is not true, arguments cannot be accessed by name as of now; it is by index only.
